Story one of Lucy Maud Montgomery
Short stories, 1896 to 1901.
This is a librivox recording.
All Librivox recordings
are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer,
please visit librivox.org,
recording by Qadhafi.
Lucy Maud Montgomery Short stories
1896 to 1901 by Lucy Maud Montgomery.
A case of trespass.
It was the four new novel,
hazy breathless Day,
and Dan Phillips was trouting up one of
the back creeks of the Carlton Pond.
It was somewhat cooler up the Creek
then out on the main body of water
for the tall birches and willows.
Crowding down to the brim through
cool green shadows across it
and shut out the scorching glare
while a stray breeze now and then
rippled down the wooded slopes.
Wrestling the beach leaves with an airy,
pleasant sound out in the pond.
The glassy water creamed and
shimmered in the hot sun.
On rippled by the faintest
breath of air across the soft,
pearly tints of the horizon,
blurred the smoke of the big factories
chimneys that were owned by Mr.
Walters,
to whom the pond and adjacent
property also belonged.
Mr.
Walters was a comparative stranger
in Carlton having but recently
purchased the factories from the
heirs of the previous owner,
but he had been in charge long
enough to establish a reputation
for sternness and inflexibility
in all his business dealings.
One or two of his employees who had
been discharged by him on what they
deemed insufficient grounds helped
to deepen the impression that he
was an unjust and arbitrary man.
Merciless to all offenders and
intolerant of the slightest
infringement on his cast iron rules.
Dan Phillips had been on the
pond ever since sunrise.
The trout had risen well
in the early morning,
but as the day wore on,
growing hotter and hotter,
they refused to bite and for half
an hour Dan had not caught one.
He had a goodly string of them already,
however,
and he surveyed them with satisfaction
as he rode his leaky little
skiff to the shore of the Creek.
Pretty good catch.
He's soliloquy's best I've had this
summer so far that big spotted
one must weigh near a pound.
He's a beauty.
They're a good price over the hotels now too.
I'll go home and get my dinner
and go straight over with him.
That'll leave me time for another try
at them about sunset, who how hot it is.
I must take Ella Mae home.
A bunch of them blue flags.
They're real handsome.
He tide his skiff under the crowding.
Alders gathered a big bunch of the
purple flag lilies with their silky petals.
And started homeward whistling cheerily.
As he stepped briskly along
the Fern carpeted wood path.
Then wound up the hill under
the beaches and furs.
He was a freckled,
sunburned lad of 13 years.
His neighbors all said that Danny
was as smart as a steel trap and
immediately added that they wondered
where he got his smartness from.
Certainly not from his father.
The elder Phillips had been denominated
shiftless and slack twisted by all
who ever had any dealings with him.
In his unlucky, aimless life,
one of those improvident,
easygoing souls who sit contentedly
down to breakfast with a very faint
idea where their dinner is to come from
when he had died no one had missed
him unless it were his patients.
Sad Eyed Wife,
who bravely faced her hard lot
and toiled unremittingly to keep
a home for her two children,
Dan and a girl two years younger
who was a helpless cripple suffering
from some form of spinal disease.
Dan, who was old and steady for his years,
had gone manfully to work
to assist his mother,
though he had been disappointed in all
his efforts to obtain steady employment.
He was active and obliging,
and earned many a small amount by
odd jobs around the village and by
helping the Carlton farmers in planting
and harvest for the last two years.
However,
his most profitable source of summer
income had been the trout pond.
The former owner had allowed anyone
who wished to fish in his pond,
and Dan made a regular business
of it selling his trout at the
big hotels over at Mosquito Lake.
This, in spite of its unattractive name,
was a popular summer resort,
and Dan always found a ready
market for his catch.
When Mr.
Walters purchased the property,
it somehow never occurred to Dan
that the new owner might not be so
complacent as his predecessor in
the matter of the best trouting
pond in the country.
To be sure,
Dan often wondered why it was the
pond was so deserted this summer
he could not recall having seen a
single person on it save himself.
Still,
it did not cross his mind that there
could be any particular reason for this.
He always fished up in the cool dim
creeks which long experience had
taught him were best for trout and
came and went by a convenient would path,
but he had no thought of concealment.
In so doing he would not have cared,
had all Carlton seen him.
He had done very well with his
fish so far and prices for trout
at the lake went up every day.
Dan was an enterprising boy and a
general favorite with the hotel owners.
They knew that he could always
be depended on.
Mrs Phillips met him at the
door when he reached home.
See,
Mother said Dan Exultantly
as he held up his fish.
Just look at that fellow,
will you a pound if he's announced I
ought to get a good price for these.
I can tell you,
let me have my dinner now and I'll
go right over to the lake with them.
It's a long walk for you, Danny replied.
His mother Pityingly,
and it's too hot to go so far,
I'm afraid you'll get sunstruck or something.
You better wait till the cool of the evening.
You're looking real pale and thin
this while back. Oh I'm alright.
Mother assured Anne cheerfully
I don't mind the heat a bit.
A fellow must put up with some
inconveniences. Wait till I bring
home the money for these fish.
And I mean to have another catch
tonight it's you that's looking tired
I wish you'd enough to work so hard.
Mother, if I could only get a good
place you could take it easier.
Sam French says that Mr Walters
wants a boy up there at the factory,
but I know I wouldn't do.
I ain't big enough.
Perhaps something will turn up
soon though when our ship comes in,
Mother will have our good times he
picked up his flags and went into
the little room where his sister
Lai see what I brought you LMA,
he said as he thrust the cool,
moist clusters into her thin, eager hands.
Did you ever see such beauties?
Oh Dan, how lovely they are.
Thank you ever so much.
If you're going over to the lake this
afternoon, will you please call it Mrs.
Henry's and get those nutmeg
geranium slip she promised me.
Just look how nice my others are
growing pink one is going to bloom.
I'll bring you all the geranium
slips at the lake if you like.
When I get Rich LMA,
I'll build you a big Conservatory and I'll
get every flower in the world in it for you.
You should just live and sleep.
Among Posies is dinner ready,
mother Trouting is hungry.
Work, I tell you what paper is this?
He picked up a folded
newspaper from the table.
Oh, that's only an old lake.
Advertiser answered Mrs Phillips.
As she plays the potatoes on the
table and wiped her moist hot face
with the corner of her gingham apron,
Lettie Mills brought it in
around a parcel this morning.
It's four weeks old,
but I kept it to read if I ever get time.
It's so seldom we see a paper
of any kind nowadays,
but I haven't looked at it yet.
Why Danny,
what on Earth is the matter for Dan,
who had opened the paper and
glanced over the first page,
suddenly gave a choked
exclamation and turned pale,
staring stupidly at the sheet before him.
See mother he gasped as she came up in
alarm and looked over his shoulder.
This is what they read.
Notice anyone found fishing on
my pond at Carlton after date
will be prosecuted according to
law without respective persons.
June 1st age C Walters.
Oh, Danny, what does it mean?
Dan went and carefully closed the
door of Lma's room before he replied,
his face was pale and his voice shaky.
Mean, well, mother,
it just means that I've been stealing Mr.
Walters trout all summer stealing them.
That's what it means.
Oh Danny, but you didn't no,
no,
but I ought to have remembered that he
was the new owner and have asked him.
I never thought mother what
is prosecuted according to.
Law mean? I don't know.
I'm sure Danny, but if this is so,
there's only one thing to be done.
You must go straight to Mr.
Walters and tell him all about it.
Mother, I don't want to.
He's a dreadfully hard man, Sam.
French's father says I wouldn't
believe a word Sam French's father
says about Mr Walters said.
Mrs Phillips firmly he's got a spite
against him because he was dismissed.
Besides Danny,
it's the only right thing to do.
You know that we are poor,
but we've never done anything.
Underhand yet yes, mother I know
said Dan gulping his fear bravely.
Down I'll go, of course,
right after dinner I was
only scared at first.
I'll tell you what I'll do.
I'll clean these trout nicely and
take them to Mr Walters and tell him
that if he'll only give me time,
I'll pay him back every cent of money
I got for all I sold this summer.
Then maybe he'll let me off,
seeing as I didn't know about the notice.
I'll go with you, Danny.
No, I'll go alone,
mother you need and go with me,
said Dan heroically to himself.
He said that his mother had troubles enough.
He would never subject her to
the added ordeal of an interview
with the Stern factory owner.
He would bear the line in his den
himself if it had to be done.
Don't tell me anything about it.
It would worry her and don't cry.
Mother. I guess it'll be alright.
Let me have my dinner now and
I'll go straight off.
Dan ate his dinner rapidly.
Then he carefully cleaned his trout,
put them in a long basket
with rhubarb leaves over them,
and started with an assumed cheerfulness
very far from his real feelings.
He had barely passed the
gate when another boy came,
shuffling along a tall rawboned
lad with an insinuating smile
and shifty cunning eyes.
The newcomer nodded familiarly to Dan.
Hello Sunny,
going over to the lake with your catch are
you you'll fry up before you get there,
though, mean nothing.
Left of you but a crisp.
No, I'm not going to the lake.
I'm going up to the
factory to see Mr Walters.
Sam French came along whistle of surprise.
Why Dan? What's taking you there?
You surely ain't thinking of
trying for that place are you?
Walters wouldn't look at you
why he wouldn't take me.
You haven't the ghost of a chance.
No, I'm not going for that.
Sam did you know that Mr Walters had
a notice in the Lake advertiser that
nobody could fish in his pond this summer?
Course I did.
The old skinflint he's too mean to live.
That's what he never goes
near the pond himself.
Regular dog in the Manger he
is dad says Sam why didn't you
tell me about that notice?
Gracious,
didn't you know I supposed everybody did?
And here I've been taking you for the
cutest chap this side of sunset fishing
away in that Creek where no one could
see you and cutting home through the
woods on the sly he don't mean to
tell me you never saw that notice.
No I didn't do you think I'd have gone
near the pond if I had I never saw it
till today and I'm going straight to
Mr Walters now to tell him about it.
Sam French stopped short in the
dusty road and stared at Dan and.
Undisguised amazement Dan Phillips.
He exaggerated.
Have you gone plum out of your
mind boy alive.
You needn't be afraid that I Peach
on you I'm to blame glad to see
anyone get the better of that old
Walters Smart as he thinks himself G
to dream of going to him and telling
him you've been fishing in his pond.
Why he'll put you in jail.
You don't know what sort of a man he is.
Dad says never mind what your dad says.
Sam my mind's made up Dan you.
Champ, listen to me that notice has
prosecuted according to law, why Danny?
He'll put you in prison or fine yours.
Something dreadful.
I can't help it.
If he does, said Danny stoutly,
you get outta here Sam French,
and don't be trying to scare me.
I mean to be honest.
And how can I be if I don't own up to Mr.
Walters that I've been stealing his
trout all summer, stealing fiddlesticks?
Dan, I used to think you were a
chat with some sense,
but I see I was mistaken, you ain't.
Done no harm.
Walters will never miss them.
Trout, if you're so dreadful
squeamish that you won't fish no more.
Why you needn't but just let the matter
drop and hold your tongue about it.
That's my advice.
Well, it isn't my mother's then.
I mean to go by hers you need
and argue no more.
Sam, I'm going.
Go then said Sam, stopping short in disgust.
You're a big fool Dan and serve you right.
If Walter lands off to jail,
but I don't wish you know well if I can do
anything for your family after you're gone,
I will and I'll try and give you a remains.
Christian burial.
If there are any remains.
So long Danny give my love to old Walters.
Dan was not greatly
encouraged by this interview.
He shrank more than ever from the thought
of facing the stern factory owner.
His courage had almost evaporated when
he entered the office at the factory
and asked Shakely from Mr Walters.
He's in his office, there replied the clerk,
but he's very busy.
Better leave your message with me.
I must see Mr.
Walters himself please said Dan
firmly but with inward trepidation.
The clerk swung himself impatiently
from his stool and ushered an into Mr
Walters private office boy to see you,
Sir.
He said briefly,
as he closed the ground glass door
behind him. Dan, Dizzy and Trembling
stood in the dreaded presence.
Mr. Walters was writing at a
table covered with the business.
Like litter of papers he laid down
his pen and looked up with a frown.
As the clerk vanished.
He was a stern looking man with deep set
Gray eyes and a square clean shaven chin.
There was not an ounce of superfluous
flesh on his frame and his voice and
manner were those of the decided resolute,
masterful man of business.
He pointed to a capacious leather
chair and said, concisely,
what's your business with me?
Boy, Dan had carefully thought out
a statement of facts beforehand,
but every word had vanished from his memory.
He had only a confused,
desperate consciousness that
he had a theft to confess.
And then it must be done as soon as possible.
He did not sit down. Please, Mr.
Walters. He began desperately.
I came to tell you your notice.
I never saw it before, and I've been fishing.
On your pond, all summer,
but I didn't know honest.
I've brought you all I caught today and
I'll pay back for them all sometime.
And amused puzzled expression
crossed Mr Walters noncommittal face.
He pushed the leather chair forward.
Sit down my boy he said kindly.
I don't quite understand this somewhat
mixed up statement of yours you've
been fishing on my pond you say didn't
you see my notice in the advertiser?
Dan sat down more composedly.
The revelation was over and
he was still alive.
No,
Sir,
we hardly ever see an advertiser
and nobody told me I'd always
been used to fishing there,
and I never thought about what
it was alright to keep on.
I know I ought to have remembered
and asked you, but truly, Sir,
I didn't mean to steal your fish.
I used to sell them over the
hotels we saw the notice today.
Mother and me and I came right up.
I've brought you the trout I
caught this morning and if only
you won't prosecute me Sir,
I'll pay back every cent I got
for the others every sense,
Sir, if you'll give me time.
Mr.
Walters passed his hand across his
mouth to conceal something like a smile.
Your name is Dan Phillips, isn't it?
He said Irrelevantly and
you live with your mother,
the widow Phillips down there
at Carlton Corners.
I understand, yes Sir,
said Dan.
Wondering how Mr Walters knew so
much about him and if these were
the preliminaries of prosecution.
Mr Walters took up his pen and
drew a blank sheet towards him.
Well, Dan,
I put that notice in because I
found that many people who used to
fish on my pond irrespective of
leave or license were accustomed
to lunch or camp on my property
and did not a little damage.
I don't care for trouting myself.
I have no time for it.
However,
I hardly think you'll do much damage.
You can keep on fishing there.
I'll give you a written permission
so that if any of my men see you,
they won't interfere with you.
As for these trout here,
I'll buy them from you at Mosquito Lake
prices and will say no more about the matter.
How will that do?
Thank you Sir stammered Dan.
He could hardly believe his ears.
He took the slip of paper. Mr.
Walters handed to him and rose to his feet.
Wait a minute, Dan.
How was it you came to tell me this?
You might have stopped your depredations,
and I should not have been any the
wiser that wouldn't have been honest,
Sir, said Dan, looking squarely at him.
There was a brief silence.
Mr Walters Thrummed
Meditatively on the table.
Dan waited Wonderingly finally the factory.
Owners said abruptly there's a
vacant place for a boy down here.
I want it filled as soon as possible.
Will you take it?
Mr.
Walters, me Dan thought the world
must be turning upside down.
Yes you you are rather young,
but the duties are not hard
or difficult to learn.
I think you'll do.
I was resolved not to fill that
place until I could find a perfectly
honest and trustworthy boy for it.
I believe I found him.
I discharged the last boy because he
lied to me about some trifling offense,
for which I would have forgiven
him if he told the truth I
can bear with incompetency.
But falsehood and deceit I
cannot and will not tolerate.
He said so sternly that Dan's face paled.
I am convinced that you
are incapable of either.
Will you take the place? Dan, I will.
If you think I can fill it,
Sir, I'll do my best.
Yes, I believe you will.
Perhaps I know more about you than you think.
Businessman must keep their eyes open.
Will regard this matter is settled.
Then come up tomorrow at 8:00
o'clock and one word more Dan.
You have perhaps heard that I
am an unjust and hard master.
I am not the former,
and you will never have occasion
to find me the latter.
If you were always as truthful and
straightforward as you've been today,
you might easily have deceived
me in this matter,
that you did not do so is the best
and only recommendation I require.
Take those trout up to my
house and leave them.
That will do good afternoon Dan.
Somehow got his days self through the
glass door and out of the building.
The whole interview had been such a
surprise to him that he was hardly sure
whether or not he had dreamed it all.
I feel as if I were some personnel so
he said to himself as he started down
the hot white Rd mother was right.
I'll stick to her motto.
I wonder what Sam will say to this.
End of a case of trespass
recording by Qadhafi
www.publicdomainaudiobooks.blogspot.com.